# ForumIAS Post Mains + Interview Strategy by Mr. Ayush Sinha
## Must do things in the three months
1. Limit time for interview prep for maximum 5 hours. There are no boundaries of interview. We might put in useless effort, and end up in frustration. 
2. Read the newspaper - the Times of India, Indian Express, Hindustan Times - The Hindu is also okay.
	1. Don't read too much into opinion based articles. Some facts are also asked. Read the news items, facts.
	2. Read the semi-political news. Matters of policy - ex. caste census. Front page, Nation page news is important. More than opinion, editorial.
	3. Make 1-1.5 page notes from the newspapers for each issue.
	4. Confidence - not missing anything mainstream.
	5. Pay attention to technical, factual details.
	6. Opinion - our final answer. Not, for - against.
	7. State level news is not asked unless that is national news.
3. Prepare DAF
	1. Prepare Home state, last state of residence.
	2. Prepare Hobbies
	3. Prepare in question-answer format. Prepare basic questions. Our response is better on pre-mediated questions.
	4. Our opinions have to be well filtered.
	5. Never forget good answers. Avoid generic answers.
	6. No need to study graduation subjects. Unless - economics, civil engineering, electrical engineering, electronics engineering. Prepare from public policy perspective, current topics.
	7. Visit the native place.
	8. Gap on the resume - have a satisfactory response.
	9. Groups with the home state. Engineering disciplines.
4. Group discussions is good idea. If we are good communicator, try to remain silent. If the group is not humbling you, there is some problem with the group!
5. Three reasons for lower score in interview -
	1. Fast talker.
	2. Not able to pass the due diligence test. 
	3. Answering immediately before finishing the question. Correcting the board. The board does not have to be correct. We have to be correct as per the board.
	4. Misconception - Giving social angle to profile gives brownie points. The board will know if you're socially oriented. You don't need to be socially oriented to be in bureaucracy. Don't have too much social orientation angle that you cannot justify.
6. Work on health - cardiovascular health - walking
7. Work on mains - if first mains.
	1. Journal down first mains experience. Write down the points of answers written. What needs to be done. Be diligent.
	2. Do some **modular courses**. Take classes. There is huge scope for content improvement. At least CA classes by Dipin Sir.
	3. Keep one leg in prelims. Do SFG.
8. Read at least 3-4 books
	1. Suggestions -
		1. The Doctor and the Saint - Arundhati Roy
		2. The Sapiens
		3. Atomic Habits
		4. The Republic of Hunger
		5. English August
	2. Read for pleasure, leisure.
9. Was the mains good?
	1. We're nobody to judge mains performance. Mains is subjective. Unexpected interview calls happen.
	2. Keep one leg in the interview preparation. It's better to be prepared and not need it, rather than needing it and being unprepared.
10. IFoS
	1. Read the newspaper.
	2. Focus on IFoS mains.
11. Take the first mock as early as possible. Even under-prepared. Ensures that the preparation was not mis-aligned. In the first mock - don't judge. Write down the interview questions.
12. Resources
	1. blog.forumias.com/interview
13. Don't -
	1. Get into any addictions.
	2. Work very hard. Pursue whatever you want at leisure. Study maximum 8 hours.
14. Do -
	1. Take a break. Go home. Have enough amount of guilt to get the study done later.
	2. If changing optional - take the decision now.
	3. Work on both defensive and offensive areas.



# News
1. [[Caste census]]
2. [[Nobel prize#Economics 2023]]
3. [[Interstate water disputes#Cauvery River water dispute]]
4. Former Andhra Pradesh CM Chandrababu Naidu arrested in skill development scam case by CID, appeared in ACB court.
5. [[Adolescence]]
6. [[Tribals]]